NFT...Hmm, a new word to know about. Many of you might not understand the concept behind this. Please don't give me the very shit answer - Blockchain Technology.
Pre-Note: Well yeah, Indeed that's also a valid point. But, many of you don't know anything beyond that. Now, I'm going to make the concept simpler so that anyone can understand. For those who already know about this, you can give honest reviews on this (my first-ever Newsletter)! I was doing a project on NFTs and started knowing about what it is. And after thorough thinking, I got myself the best explanation for this thing ever!
Here's what Buildspace is saying about NFT:
An NFT is a "token" that a person can own that links to some piece of "data" (Ex. a link to a piece of digital art, a video, an image etc. )
Here's my explanation:
In this internet world, almost everything can be manipulated/ duplicated. Including the thing that you own. It can be an image, a video, or any digital art. Anyone can simply duplicate it and monetize your effort without putting any effort!
You could say youtube videos have copyrights, which act as an authenticator.
Bro...that's youtube, governed by Google Inc., which indeed can be governed by any central governance system of different countries.
So, the availability of any content/legal aspects or rights of your own self can still be controlled by the government! That's what decentralization is totally trying to change.
Hence, an NFT is like a digital patent for all your things (It can be anything), whose metadata and transaction history(code changes) will always stay on the blockchain and fortunately, no one can legally sell you things without any permission!
Now, I can get your question. Well this might look practical for really rare things like the Monalisa painting or Picasso arts! I think that in today's world, anyone can sell anything s long as there's someone purchasing them out there. Isn't it? Ex: Branded products which are being duplicated and sold.
Well, here's the explanation for that too :
Let's take an example of a cap. We might see the roadside vendors who sell the exact replica of branded goods. It's really tough to differentiate them from the original ones. Until and unless you observe them keenly, I'm sure you can't even judge which one's the real.
But for every branded product there's a barcode+brand logo tag attached somewhere if you observe. Duplicated products won't give you that. So, that's the difference between an original one & a fake one - Validation from the true owner! That validation also promises you all-time product quality, longevity and mainly the trust you need.
Whenever we make any purchase, we firstly look at the value the product is providing us for the money we put in.
In the NFTs case, these are the digital representation for the subscriptions you make for the products that someone made. The products can be courses, one-on-one mentoring, maybe live personal sessions with celebrities(If the supplier is one) etc.
So, when you're subscribing for something, you're sure that you're getting something valuable in return. And to prove that you've subscribed to the right person, the owner/service provider gives you an "NFT" numbered uniquely for you and duly signed! These NFTs can be limited like special editions for the exclusive content or value that the seller provides. Totally depends on the seller.
Larger the NFT value, larger the exclusive value you get in return!
Let's say the demand for a particular seller's NFT increases, and you want to make some big bucks out of it as you no longer need that subscription, you can sell them and get 3 times the money you paid for that subscription initially. It might even fetch you 1000 times returns! Who knows? LOL!!😂
Increase in demand + constant supply = Time to make big bucks💰🤑
So, that's what NFT is all about according to me. Of course, there's a backend process to make an NFT happen. Let me know if I missed something here and I will always be looking forward to your views on my first-ever Newsletter.
Cheers guys!!🍺
